Yeah, I'll just do quick, quick intros.
We can go around real quick. So I'm Cliff,
Dial.
I'm a solutions architect and I'm
relatively new to working with the
investments team.
So I'm kind of learning as well about
their platform. And with that,
I guess I'll hand it over to you, Rick,
if you want to do a quick intro.
Yeah, I'm, I'm Rick Carroll.
I'm the the principal app dev slash
solution architect for the for the Hobbs
Brook team. So we do real estate,
but also the investments team too.
So we support all investment accounting
Yep.
and investment OPS.
And so this particular request is tied
directly to the new investment system,
the the Clearwater project, yeah.
There's clear water, right?
Yep, cool. So Morgan Halton,
product owner for our collab platforms
and tools,
which really encompasses Exchange,
SharePoint, Teams,
all the stuff we use every day.
And I own a little bit of Power Platform.
Power Platform at FM has historically
been nobody wants to touch it,
nobody wants to own it.
But everybody wants to use it.
So where we are at now,
we know we have app dev teams using it.
We want people to use it properly at the
same time.
A lot of times it comes up from an SA
perspective of is Power Platform really
the right spot to put something?
Sometimes it is, sometimes it's not.
Not going to debate that here.
We've got a handful of production things
in there. On the Polaris side,
they're using it for location contacts,
so we have this.
This plant at a customer who is our
primary secondary contact phone number
like a contact management system.
We also have within our ESD department we
had an end user citizen developer create
a power app because he got access to
power apps and shared it with 300 people.
So there's precedent there as well.
Our stance on it is we don't want to
squash things and say no,
you're not allowed to do that.
We want to make sure that you're doing it
the right way. So in the case of ESD,
there is a review with information
security solution architecture where they
made some tweaks to the app,
but it was really more about support
ownership. Is everybody on the same?
Same page that if this thing breaks,
who's gonna own it? Who's gonna fix it?
Let's make sure it's secured so only the
right people see the right kind of info,
that kind of thing. And Cliff,
based on our team's chat that got this
all started.
It sounds like we're going down that path
of we're doing the right thing here.
Let's just.
Make sure we're doing it correctly and
set permissions up, set environments up,
all that stuff.
So we're following best practice.
So that being said,
Power Automate Power Apps falls under
that.
I think Copilot is starting to weave its
way into there.
That's gonna be scary and interesting
later this year,
but and then doesn't apply to you guys,
but just so you're aware.
We do have it a a formal approval process.
Now let's say a citizen dev in the
finance side creates a whole bunch of
stuff in Power Automate and goes,
this is awesome.
I want my department to use it.
There's an approval process to get
recognition of. Yes,
product owner is aware that this is out
there. Who's gonna own it?
Who's gonna support it?
Who's paying for it?
And does it meet FM security standards?
And if all those things are answered and
everybody's comfortable with the answers,
green light,
you're in production with your citizen
developed thing.
And then specifically in finance,
they've brought a partner in to build a
handful of things for.
The FM finance side of things has nothing
to do with investments,
but they're taking a couple old mainframe
systems, moving them to a power app,
and then a bunch of desktop automations
to automate things where people move
their mouse and click and wait days for
reports to run. So.
We have precedent to use it here.
We're still kind of working through our
best practices and yeah,
happy to help you guys out and get you
what you need. So that that's my story.
Yeah.
Would it help if I told you what our use
case was?
Yeah.
Absolutely. Let's jump into that.
So what are we looking to do?
How are we doing it now and how do we all
fit together?
OK,
So what one of the main selling points of
Clearwater was that they already have
pre-existing connectivity to all these
different banks and investment managers
and so all the different transactions at
the investments group would automatically
flow into Clearwater.
That was that was the the pitch to us.
The reality of it is they don't have 100%
coverage,
so there ends up being a handful right
now, at least five or six,
and there's probably possibility of more
in the future.
Of investment managers that don't have
connectivity to Clearwater,
but we need to reflect the amount of
money,
the positions we have with those
investment managers and any transactions
that happen on those accounts.
And communicate that up to Clearwater.
So the way that Clearwater wants those
things communicated to them are in Excel
files that they call GD TS.
It's like a global data template.
So they have a predefined format of what
they expect for.
A position file. I need to know, you know,
what's the as of date,
what's the account it's related to,
what's the QSIP or ticker it's related to?
How many shares? What's the price?
Handful of fields like that transactions.
They have a similar spreadsheet. You know,
was were dividends declared or was there
a stock split?
Did you buy or sell anything? OK,
so those are all things that we need to
communicate to them in spreadsheets.
So without this Power Automate process,
what somebody would have to do without
the Power Automate process?
Is that they would have to log into the
web portal for all these different
investment managers.
Get all that information on a daily basis.
How many shares do I have?
What's the going price?
What's the as of date?
Fill in all these spreadsheets,
fill in any transactions that occurred
and then send them to Clearwater to be.
Processed.
What we've built within Power Automate is
a process that basically automates all
those processes of logging into the
website, grabbing the files,
Oh.
hoefully that they have a download that I
can download and then parse.
Usually CSVS or Excel sheets,
put it into the appropriate format and
then put it on a folder where Globalscape
can go and SFTP it up to Clearwater.
In in some instances we do have to resort
to screen scraping because some of these
Yeah.
portals.
Might not offer, you know,
position download or transaction download
files, so we do that as a last resort.
But in the vast majority,
most of them have files that we just
download the data and then just reformat
it to to push it back up to Clearwater.
So we do that for all the position files
on a daily basis.
We also run it through the transactions
on a daily basis.
But the the reality is because these are
mutual funds,
they typically only generate transactions.
Usually not even monthly.
Usually it's like quarterly, so.
Yeah.
So those files are very few and far
between,
but the position files get posted daily.
This is up and running today, right?
This is running today.
So currently we're create,
we create an individual position file for
every account within Clearwater.
So right now we're creating a dozen files
each day for these positions,
but that's spread over I think 5
different portals, so some of the portals.
May have multiple accounts associated
with them. Some are one to one,
Yeah.
but most usually are are many to one.
And so the the format that we've agreed
upon with Clearwater is each individual
account we have with Clearwater.
Generates its own sreadsheet O.
For these osition files,
OK.
it's typically only a single line item
per sreadsheet.
Are these cloud flows that run within
Power Automate?
Are you using Power Automate Desktop to
do it?
They're all desktop because I need to be
able to do the screen scraping portion of
OK.
it.
I also need to be able to save it to a
network share for the sake of global
scape.
Yep.
So those two things kind of knock the
cloud out of the option.
OK.
And then the endpoint that they're
running on is you have a shared machine,
a server, just run it on Rick's laptop.
So,
so that's one of the things we've been
trying to to explore.
So I had tried to get the picture in
picture option within Power Automate to
work at least off of my desktop,
because then it wouldn't tie up my
desktop while it's running,
Yep.
but nobody on the help desk could get
that going for me.
Because of credential issues.
So we've kind of given up on that.
We kind of figured that was a stopgap.
Anyways,
we do intend to get a a shared virtual
machine that the team can use to run
OK.
these these flows.
But because of the nature of the flows,
they do need to be attended.
They can't just run on a schedule.
They need to be on a like basically a an
OK.
That's gonna be my next question is
attended or unattended.
open. Yeah, yeah,
they have to be attended.
Yeah.
Mhm, Yep.
See what they say.
Can definitely facilitate that,
but my team doesn't have the expertise or
experience with it to go yet.
You gotta do AB and C and you're good to
go.
Right.
But we can definitely help facilitate
that. I would say for the virtual.
There's I'm not on the end point team,
but I know enough to be dangerous.
If you're gonna stick with a virtual
desktop that's like Windows 11 based,
your options are gonna be with an Azure
virtual desktop that shared that a few
people can log into.
Those get powered off automatically every
night because there's an uptime cost
associated to them. It's not.
Right.
Flat fee per month.
It's consumption per hour.
Right.
I see you're you may be better off
looking at having just a server built
like a server 2025 endpoint in the data
center that y'all can RDP into and do
Mhm.
whatever you need to do.
Right.
Because that'll that'll be up 24/7.
I'll leave that in your hands to figure
out,
but I wanted to make sure you're aware of
OK.
that because we've had based on your time
zone, they turn off at 5:00 PM local time.
So you starts up at 3:00.
It's attended to the point.
If you click the buttons that you let it
run and it's running and doing its thing,
you don't need to be there.
5:00 PM That machine's gonna shut off.
It doesn't care.
Right, right.
It literally just pulls the power plug
and you gotta redo it.
So just want you to know that before you
go down the virtual machine route.
Right.
Yeah, I mean this,
this particular process is really going
to only run once a day,
so it's going to run once a day in the
OK.
morning. So that's not a huge showstopper.
OK, cool.
Um.
Then I think this meeting was about
getting things out of personal
productivity environment into dedicated
environments, right? Uh, they also OK.
Hmm.
Right, yes.
So how familiar are you guys with Power
Platform environments?
I'm just trying to figure out where I
should start.
No, not not not much.
Other than I like I said, I I knew that,
OK.
you know,
I I wanted to have it in a shared
environment so that it was easier to
share with the team.
Yep.
I did share my flows individually with
somebody else on the team,
OK.
so I wasn't the sole.
Owner of it,
but I didn't feel like that was a a good
Yeah.
Yeah,
especially when we're talking moving
long term solution.
millions of dollars around in portfolios.
This isn't something that makes Rick's
Yeah.
life easier. You know,
this is kind of a big deal.
Yeah, yeah.
So other question would be so these flows,
are they running under your account or a
service account right now?
So so that is also I I think someone
something that we need to resolve because
right now they are running under my my
own account but the I'm foreseeing an
OK.
issue because again to you know again
this whole.
Situation is is icky and I don't like it
one bit,
but I've been rust upon me so I got to
deal with all the different things that
OK.
go with it.
So one of the issues is most of these
portals use two-factor authentication
which which means.
Uh.
So usually once I do the two-factor
authentication, it sticks.
So I'm good for probably some of these.
I haven't even had to reauthenticate once
I said you know, yeah, this is my machine,
don't ask me again.
Yep.
But if we have users logging in with
their own user IDs.
They're not going to share the same sort
of pool of of cookies that are stored on
Yeah.
the browser.
So having a service account that
everybody used to run these flows would
mean we could set the cookies once and be
done.
Um.
So.
And I'm not sure if somebody else logs in
under their own credentials,
sets their cookie,
if that then invalidates mine and we get
Yeah, that.
into a case of ping pong, you know?
That's getting a little out of me.
I think that's more of the end point side.
Mhm.
Um.
So the people running these flows,
these would be like the investment
managers, right?
Like the portfolio management team?
It would be,
it would I I think at least for the
foreseeable future would just be team,
it would be my team members.
OK.
OK, IT people. OK,
that makes things infinitely easier.
So it would be IT people.
It would not be the business I I think
right. I think you know pipe dream,
it would be great if we could voice this
off on the business but I I just.
Just don't see it happening, you know?
Yeah, OK. So with the virtual machines,
I think where we're at now is we need to
figure out, yeah,
from a credential perspective,
is it gonna be?
A shared service account,
shared credential where everybody logs in
with that credential and does whatever it
is they need to do.
Or is Cliff logging in as Cliff?
Is Rick logging in as Rick and then kind
of working in their own profile?
That's going to have a direct impact back
Right.
onto the type of Azure Virtual Desktop.
You get,
whether it's a shared desktop or an
individual. So a shared desktop would say,
hey,
OK.
under the covers I have this virtual
machine, this virtual hardware,
but I can have multiple profiles logged
onto it at a time doing their own thing
versus what we typically do is map one
person to one machine. So.
Rick, you would have your own machine.
Cliff, you would have your own machine.
Right.
So you guys need to kind of figure out
which path you want to go down there.
Do you want to tie 1 user to 1 virtual
machine to run this stuff on or have a
shared VM and work with the end point
team to figure out how that would work?
If you do a server again out out of my
wheelhouse,
Right.
but I know enough to be dangerous,
you should be able to have multiple
people logged into it at the same time.
Where I think the server is gonna bite
Mhm.
you is if you need to actually use
desktop version of Excel on there.
Getting Office installed on there. Yeah,
it's way,
way more complicated than it sounds like
'cause Microsoft's licensing model is per
OK, right.
user, not per device.
Um.
So there's definitely some architectural
elements to figure out there.
From let's just say we have one service
account that does all this stuff.
Service account can be stored in password
state.
Service account can be licensed for Power
Platform,
Yeah.
can be licensed for Office to activate
Excel. Don't worry about that,
M.
we'll hook you up there.
Yep.
At that point now it becomes.
Is it possible for two people to log into
the machine and run the same thing under
the service account? Don't know.
Need to figure that out where the
environments come in in Power Platform.
So you have your flows now.
They all live in an environment called
personal productivity or FM global
personal productivity,
because we haven't rebranded it yet.
Personal productivity, as you know,
it's intended for personal productivity
stuff. What makes Richard's life easier?
What makes Morgan's life easier?
Not for things that drive the business.
So good thing we're having this
conversation.
We can build out additional environments
for investments to put this stuff in.
In Power Platform,
an environment is just a container of
stuff.
What people typically do is they'll have
their solution and then a dev environment.
A prod environment,
maybe a sandbox or a staging as well.
Whatever you guys want, we can do.
It's just a matter of building out more
Hm.
Yep.
environments and then for access to them.
We can build out permissions with 80
groups that say people in this group can
run things in this environment and only
run them.
People in this other group are
environment owners and makers and they
can administer the environment and make
new things in the environment.
So we have options there as well.
Right.
We could definitely do that.
And then as far as moving your flows from
one environment to another,
my team would have to help with that.
What we would do is a screen share with
you,
basically have you export it as a
solution from Power Platform.
Mm-hmm.
It saves it as a zip file locally.
And then you can go into the new
environment you want to move it to,
upload it,
and then that's kind of how you move it
from one environment to another.
What you're going to want to look at
OK.
there is this Power Platform concept of
environment variables.
So if you're setting variables in your
actual flows and you find, hey,
I have 10 flows that I'm setting the same
variables for all the time.
Make it an environment variable and then
that gets set when it moves from
environment A to environment B.
You only set it once.
You have to go back and set it on every
single flow.
Yeah.
My team can definitely help do that as
well.
Where we don't have anything to offer
right now is around automation and CI/CD,
so.
I have a pipeline in ADO when I update
something that then wants to pull it from
staging and move it to prod.
We're not doing anything there.
A couple of teams have started to dabble
with that and our from a platform
standpoint for Power Platform,
our stance is we'll.
Tell us what permissions you need to make
this work and we'll give it to you.
But we're not going to own your pipelines
in ADO and Octopus.
That's on you to figure out,
but we'll definitely help you enable it
if that's somewhere you want to go.
Some people want that,
other people are like, no, I'm good,
just managing it within the environment.
So whatever works for you works for us
kind of thing.
OK. I mean,
I I I'm hoping that this is not a
continuous development situation that
that that we do this infrequently and
Yep.
maybe have to respond to, you know,
somebody changed their website and now.
That's exactly what it's gonna be.
You know the downloads in a different
place, then you know,
I I just don't want to.
I want to build out a whole
infrastructure for something that I don't
envision changing frequently.
I'm sure you've already gone down this
path,
but do any of these vendors have like an
API we could use just to automate
downloading stuff and make people's lives
easy? Nope.
No, I because The thing is,
well that that's the thing, right?
Clearwater would have integrations with
these companies if they offered SFTP or
Gotcha.
if they offered an API.
All they offer is go to our portal and
and get the data you want. That's it.
That's all they offer.
Yep.
So that's why we're stuck where we're
stuck and Clearwater is smart enough.
Yep.
To know, you know what,
we're not even touching those vendors.
Yep, hope that makes sense. All right,
so what's your timeline looking like on
You're on your own with them, you know?
Yeah.
this?
Well,
so we're already running these these
processes today and so I'm I'm running it
on a daily basis and now that I've shared
it with somebody else in my team,
he can at least run it himself if if I'm
not around for whatever reason.
So we're covered at the bare minimum and
like I said, we're producing files today.
OK.
They're going into Clearwater today.
Ideally,
if I could get the environments created,
then I think it would be easier for us to
maybe start bringing other team.
Members into the mix beyond just myself
and and Joe Ellis.
And then the next step after that would
be saying, OK,
what can we do to put this into a shared
VM or something where where basically
Yep.
it's all in one place and.
You know,
everybody knows that's where you go to to
run these flows.
Yep, awesome.
So we can definitely help with that. Um.
Both in this week and probably next week
or the week after we could get
environments built out.
What I would say to that is I will set a
call up with this same crew and I'm going
to add Chris Cahill in from my team and
then we can go that next level down with
Chris of what do we want to call the
OK.
environments.
Who needs what roles?
He can help you figure out what AD groups
need to get created 'cause what we like
to do is link groups to roles so that we
can just offload that to security admin
and have defined ownership around that.
Hmm.
Right.
So probably have Barbara or somebody on
the investment side be an approver
Yep.
depending on what the data is.
I'll let you guys figure that out.
OK, yeah.
Don't need to get involved there, but.
So we're good there and then Cliff from
an SA perspective, so.
Probably check with either Phil or Mark
Lesk. Just heads up,
make sure they're aware that this work is
occurring in Power Platform.
That approval process that we talked
about earlier was developed specifically
with Mark about a year and a half ago.
And we kind of made a decision at that
time of like anything IT related,
Mhm.
we're not going to run through that
process because it's IT,
it's not citizen dev.
But I think just raising awareness of,
hey,
we're doing something official in Power
Platform needs to happen on your side
within SA,
just so people know that something's
going to Power Platform.
OK, yeah, I'll definitely, uh,
let them both know.
Yep. Um.
Yeah, I mean, Mark, Mark's already aware.
I mean, we've we've, we've met with Mark.
OK, cool. Awesome.
And the other thing I wonder and I don't
think Infosec needs to be involved here,
but I'm just gonna ping John Bruno over
the Infosec team and get his take on it.
Just given the type of financial data
that's moving around and we're trying to
do things right,
I don't think they need to be involved
and do a write up,
but I can't speak for them.
So we'll just cross that one off and make
sure we're all good there.
Mhm.
Um.
All right, cool.
So we're almost at the end of our time
here. What else we got going on?
Did I answer all your questions?
Not enough info. Too much info.
No, I think we're,
I think we're good for now. Like I said,
OK, cool.
I I think once we have the environments
up and running and and we've probably
discussed who on our team should have
access, once the AD groups are set up,
that'll that'll all help.
Yep. Yeah.
And then the the endpoint side of things,
Yep.
the virtual machine side of things. Um.
I'm gonna sound like a broken record here.
Open a Service Desk ticket if you need to,
just to get that conversation started.
I'll give Steve Marshall,
OK.
their product owner,
a heads up and just that it's coming in
and this is more than just somebody but a
help desk ticket and asking for help.
Yeah.
But it's gonna make its way to his team,
so I'll give him a heads up that we had
this conversation as well,
but my team typically wouldn't get
involved there, so.
You guys can work with them on that and
get what you need,
but ultimately the the plan would be to
offload it off your laptop.
But.
I know Yogesh and the finance crew that's
working on things running ran into
similar issues of this is gonna run for
three hours and it ties up my laptop.
So we need a Plan B.
I don't know what they went with though,
but you're not the first.
Right. Yep.
Yeah.
All right. Well, that does it.
I'll set something up for probably middle
towards end of next week with Chris on my
team and we can reconvene and take it
from there.
Sounds good.
Awesome.
Yeah, sounds good.
Alright, have a good one, guys.
All right. Thanks.
Thanks guys. Bye.
Hey, yeah, hey.
Alright.